What's New In python-apt 1.0
==============================
Python-Apt 1.0 fixes several issues and use of deprecated methods. Most
importantly, it introduces large file support

New features
------------
* :class:`apt_pkg.AcquireFile` can now take a hash string that is not an
  md5 value, using the new `hash` argument.
* A new a :meth:`apt_pkg.TagFile.close` method was added
* :class:`apt_pkg.TagFile` is now a context manager

* The high-level cache class, :class:`apt.cache.Cache` and it's companion
  :class:`apt.cache.FilteredCache` now support package
  names with special architecture qualifiers such as :all and :native.

* The method :meth:`apt.cache.Cache.connect2` allows connecting callbacks on
  cache changes that take the cache as their first argument, reducing the
  potential for reference cycles.

* The property :attr:`apt.package.Version.is_installed` was added.
* The properties :attr:`apt.package.BaseDependency.installed_target_versions`
  and :attr:`apt.package.Dependency.installed_target_versions` were added.

* The property :class:`apt.Dependency.rawtype` was added to give the raw type
  of a dependency, such as 'Depends'.

* The attribute :attr:`apt_pkg.Dependency.comp_type_deb` and the property
  :attr:`apt.Dependency.relation_deb` were added, they return a Debian-style
  comparison operator instead of a mathematical-style one.

* A new filter for filtered caches is provided, :class:`apt.cache.InstalledFilter`.

Backward-incompatible changes
-----------------------------
* :class:`apt.Version` now compares package names in addition to version only
  when checking for equality. This was broken previously.

Deprecated
----------
The following features are deprecated, starting with this release:

* The `section` member of :class:`apt_pkg.Package`
* The `files` member of of :class:`apt_pkg.SourceRecords`
* The `md5` argument to :class:`apt_pkg.AcquireFile`, it is replaced by
  the `hash` argument.
* The method :meth:`apt.cache.Cache.connect` has been deprecated. It is
  replaced by :meth:`apt.cache.Cache.connect2` which is more flexible and
  less prone to reference cycles.
* The attribute :attr:`apt_pkg.AcquireItem.mode` has been replaced by
  :attr:`apt_pkg.AcquireItem.active_subprocess`
* The class :class:`apt_pkg.IndexRecords` has been deprecated and will
  be removed in the next release.

Removed
-------
* The module :mod:`apt.progress.gtk2` has been removed. There were no
  users in the Debian archive, its last update was in 2013, and it was buggy
  already. Apart from that, it suggested that it is OK to run a graphical
  application as root, and used the unmaintained GTK+ 2 version.

  Therefore, there is no replacement, please use PackageKit or aptdaemon
  for installation in graphical environments.
* The attribute :attr:`apt_pkg.Package.auto` was not set anymore, and thus
  removed.

Maintenance
-----------
* The classes :class:`apt.cache.Cache` and :class:`apt.cache.FilteredCache` no
  longer store cyclic references to/between them. This fixes a huge issue,
  because a cache can have tens of open file descriptors, causing the maximum
  of file descriptors to be reached easily.

* :mod:`apt_inst` now supports ar and tar archives that are larger than 4 GiB
* Various smaller bug fixes
