What's New In python-apt 2.0
============================
Changes since 1.8.

Added
-----
* The method :meth:`apt_pkg.TagSection.write()` has been added
* The attribute :attr:`apt_pkg.HashString.hashvalue` has been added
* The constructor :class:`apt_pkg.AcquireFile` now accepts an
  :class:`apt_pkg.HashStringList` as the *hash* argument.

* The classes :class:`apt_pkg.HashString` and :class:`apt_pkg.HashStringList`
  gained a new ``usable`` property.

Removed
-------
* The methods called `install_protect` have been removed
* The `section` attribute has been removed from :class:`apt_pkg.Package`
  and :class:`apt.package.Package`
* The method :meth:`apt_pkg.rewrite_section` has been removed
* The attributes :attr:`apt_pkg.Hashes.md5`, :attr:`apt_pkg.Hashes.sha1`, :attr:`apt_pkg.Hashes.sha256` have been removed
* The method :meth:`apt_pkg.Policy.get_match` has been removed.
* The constructor :class:`apt_pkg.AcquireFile` no longer takes an *md5* argument.

Changed
-------
* In :class:`apt_pkg.SourceRecords`, the tuple view of files now always contains
  None where it previously contained the md5 hash.
* The method :meth:`apt_pkg.Policy.get_priority()` no longer accepts :class:`apt_pkg.Package` instances.
* Instances of :class:`apt_pkg.HashString` can now be compared for equality
* :class:`apt.progress.base.InstallProgress` is now a context manager, use it in
  a ``with`` statement to avoid leaking file descriptors.

Bug fixes
---------

* Fixed unterminated ``char*`` array in :class:`apt_pkg.TagRemove` constructor.
